dynamic programming so this time I'm
going to be talking about both
dependency parsing and phrase structure
parsing so the reading material only
covered dependency parsing and it didn't
really cover any neural methods except
for a brief mention so I think most of
the material here should be new but um
as I've noted before there's two types
of linguistic structure we have
dependency that looks like this
infrastructure that looks like this
dependency focusing on the relationship
between the words infrastructure
focusing on the structure of the
sentence and parsing is predicting
linguistic structure with transition
based models which we talked about last
time and this time I'm going to talk
about dynamic programming based models
so kind of the important dichotomy here
is that the transition based models are
like the history based models for a part
of speech tagging that make individual
local decisions and then make their next
decision based on their previous
decision while dynamic programming based
models do some sort of dynamic program
to find a globally optimal solution so
that was also the first quiz question
and this is like the linear CRF for
partisan huge tagging so the first one
is minimum spanning tree parsing models
so if we're talking about graph piece
dependency parsing this was also in the
reading but basically we express the
sentence as a fully connected graph a
directed graph that looks like this um
we score each edge independently so each
edge gets a weight that corresponds to
this and then we find the maximum
spanning tree that gives us the tree
that has the highest score for each of
these edges um so there were a couple
questions on the on Piazza about graph
based versus transition based and I'd
like to reiterate them here in case
anybody didn't read them already um what
it said in the book was a transition
based
well what it said in the book is I'll
just put all of these up here but it
said transition based is it allows you
to design your futures flexibly but it
tends to be worse on long-distance
dependencies because it makes these
greedy decisions while graph-based is
doing kind of global optimization um the
story is a little bit different since
that book was written the book the last
edition of the book was in 2007 and I
think the new edition of the book is
slight revisions of the 2007 book um but
what we can say now for transition based
parsers is that they can each easily
conditioned on infinite tree context so
all of the previous decisions that
you've made with regards to how you make
the tree you can remember all of them so
if you remember the staff Alice TM model
it was remembering all your previous
actions it was remembering everything on
the stack and what sort of trees had had
etc the problem is it still has to use a
greedy search algorithm so it can cause
mistakes where it basically makes a
greedy decision that a good then goes
back to regrets and says I probably
shouldn't have made this decision but
it's too late to recover from it because
of the search process etc or you can
have some sort of bias in your modeling
as well because you train based on these
great decisions and then graph based
parsing can find an exact best global
solution the dynamic programming
algorithms but the disadvantages said it
has to make local independence
assumptions about each of the graph
edges basically so now more before when
the book was written this was this cost
a major difference between these methods
basically like transition based parsers
would be much better at kind of
short-term things but would fail at
long-term dependencies because they'd be
too eager in attaching things together
but now we have LS tiems
in Alice
look at the whole sentence and kind of
read the whole sentence before we start
committing to decisions so now
transition based parsers are much better
graph based parsers are also much better
because they can kind of look at pairs
of words but in in kind of an infinite
context over things so I think the
difference between the two in terms of
accuracy on short and long term
dependencies has reduced a whole lot but
I think still graph based parsers tend
to be a little bit better at global
consistency while transition based
parsers tend to get short-term things
correct because they can condition on
this local context so the Tulio Edmunds
algorithm just a brief summary so we
have a graph and we want to find its
spanning tree we can greedily select the
best incoming edge to each node and
subtract the score from each of edges
contract recursively call the algorithm
and expand the contracted node and we
had an example from the book where
basically we have something like this we
look at the scores for all of the edges
we find the maximum score of the
incoming edge to all of the nodes so
that's what the node labels indicate
twelve seven eight we subtract the score
on the node label so now the highest
score for any of the edges is zero and
all of the other edges are negative we
then find a cycle so the cycle on the
right side we take that and we contract
that into a single node and now we have
a new weighted tree and we can do the
same thing so basically we now have an
edge that goes into we have an edge that
goes into this node here and we can see
the edge going into the contracted node
we are sorry we expand out the node we
can see the edge going into the
contracted node is consistent with
consistent with only one of the edges in
this cycle because we can't have two
heads for a single for a single node so
we delete the extra the extra edge
that's going into flight
because this this edge is the one that
we can't that is not consistent with
edge that was coming into this
contracting node and then you can just
do this over and over and over again
until you until you have a consistent
tree and this algorithm basically it's
an N cubed algorithm because each time
finding all the edges is N squared and
you might have to do that recursively n
times so this algorithm can be of
complexity and cubed is this clear were
there any questions about this okay um
there's other ways of doing this this
was covered briefly in the reading but
um one is I see nurse algorithm so Isis
algorithm is entirely different from the
to Lu Edmunds algorithm this is one for
non projective dependency trees um non
projective dependencies were covered in
the in the reading last time right so um
basically Chu Lu admins can find trees
[Music]
they have something like this where you
have crossing edges iced nurse algorithm
cannot find trees like this it can only
find trees in English projective
projective trees are the great majority
so you might actually do better with ice
nurse algorithm because it will give you
this constraint of not finding things
that don't look very much like English
but for another language like check
where there's tons of non projective
trees you would definitely have to use
something like Chu Lu admins um there's
also Tarzan's algorithm actually I don't
know the correct pronunciation that
might be wrong but there's this there's
another algorithm it's basically a more
efficient version of Cholewa the tunes
so the way we train these or the way we
used to train these for sure was using
the structured hinge loss objective that
I talked about before so I covered this
in the structured prediction class but
basically to say one more time we find
the highest scoring tree and penalize
each of the correct edges by a margin
and if the found tree is not equal to
the correct tree we update the
parameters using the hinge loss so just
a quick quiz what if we were going to
use this method for for this tree what
would that what would we have to do
before running the tool ooh admins
algorithm any idea
the start of the structured finish loss
so when we run the when we run the to Lu
admins algorithm it will find the
maximal tree and we want to make it more
difficult to find the maximal tree
because the structured hinge loss
objective requires us to do that so what
would what would we do to the scores of
the edges here before running the search
algorithm
yeah and specifically which ones not the
blue ones but close
the correct ones yes very good so we
book is the head so we would want to
reduce the score of book also book
probably the one from book to flight and
the one from flight to that are the
correct ones so we would want to reduce
the score of these edges instead of
twelve seven seven make it 11 66 and
that would probably result in us getting
result in us getting a different maximal
spanning tree here which is good because
we want to penalize trees that are close
then are close in score but in correct
play is that clear okay so this is
something that we use both in neural
network land and in previous non neural
network parser land um just to for
reference it's worth thinking about the
features that we used for graph based
parsing before neural networks came
along so what features did we use before
neural nets basically this is a a thing
of feature templates that we pasted from
or that I pasted from this rather famous
paper by McDonald in all its basic you
know Graham features so we have features
of the word and the part of speech tag
of the parent the word at the part of
speech tag the word and the part of
speech tag of the child etc then
combination features of the word and
part of speech tag of the parent and
child and then also things about the
surrounding words the word is part of
speech tagging the surrounding words etc
all of these were conjoined with the art
direction
in the arc distance so this is rather
important we want to know which
direction the arcs are going in and also
how long the arcs are so for arc this
arc direction you know we're going to
have verbs be the heads of nouns often
but we're not going to have nouns be the
heads of verbs quite as often so that's
important and then the arc distance also
we tend to like shorter dependencies in
some cases but we tend to have long
distance dependencies for certain types
of part of speech combinations for
example so all of these are combined as
combination features and used for
parsing yeah I'm sorry I don't know what
I was writing in the in the last word
here because they're already listed on
the part of speech combination features
they're already listed up there any any
questions about this okay another thing
that they did was they represented words
with a prefix if they're long words so
if it was a long word they would just
take the first five letters of it this
had a function of basically turning
words that had the same stem into the
same into the same thing so this was
important before this is maybe less
important now but it's still useful
considering the kind of characters
within the words training um another
interesting thing to know about is
higher order dependency parsing so
higher order dependency parsing um
basically I said first order dependency
parsing for the example in the graph
based and all of the edges are basically
scored independently from what higher
order dependency parsing does is
basically instead of considering each
edge independently we consider pairs of
edges for a second order parser or
Flitz of edges for a third-order parser
so does that seem like a good thing here
does it seem like a good idea anybody
yes yeah it's it's a good idea so a very
clear example of why this is a good idea
is the right side of the second-order
parsing right side of the second-order
parsing example so saw with a telescope
is very likely so if we see this if
we've seen this before in our training
data then we're going to get you know a
big bonus because seeing what the
telescope is something we like to do for
third order there are also examples that
you could come up with I don't know of
seeing a girl with a telescope is if
something you do frequently but um maybe
eating eating food with a fork or
something like that might be something
you see frequently so you can basically
kind of remember these diagrams or
trigrams of dependencies in a very
generalizable way to increase your
pressing accuracy so why is this not a
why is this not a good idea though lack
of training data um that is true
it might over fit to our training data
if we aren't very careful about
regularization or only using high
frequency features or something like
that there's another another reason I
got the right answer from two places at
the same time so yeah computational
complexity this increases your
computation time so you can extract more
expressive features but it makes higher
computational complexity there are exact
parsing algorithms for kind of second
order third order I think as I was
looking for things I realized that max
came up with a fourth order parsing
algorithm
like five years ago or something like
that
but so you can come up with these
algorithms but they get increasingly
complex this paper that I cited here
demonstrates how you can do approximate
search with higher order and you can do
basically as much you can raise the
order as much as is useful but you have
to put approximate approximations in
search so yeah so this is this is good a
good thing to do
so neural models for graph based parsing
business neural networks so we have to
talk about neural networks frienldy so
we have to talk about neural models and
like the transition based parsing models
that we talked about before the first
model that kind of came out and this was
was basically neural feature
combinations so we extract these
traditional features and we let the
neural network learn the feature
combinations for us and that's this
paper pay at all 2015 it's very similar
to the transition based model and it's
similar in even its activation function
so if you if you remember what I talked
about last time I talked about the Chen
in Manning cube activation function
which basically let you learn feature
combinations for three or more features
this combination function basically is
cube followed by @nh so if you remember
the cube will look like this the cube
kind of looks like this it increases
very quickly as we as we get a larger
scale so the cube plus 10h basically
takes the cube and then it takes the tan
h so it makes this big thing that
expands really quickly then then
squashes it so we get something that
looks
what does this look like it's it's
basically a function where we increase
in the middle may be slower than the
damage I don't know actually I should
have plotted this I realized I didn't
plot this before here but uh it's it
doesn't have these extreme gains after
the 10 H but it can still learn the kind
of like triplet feature functions and
they have empirical results that shows
this converges much faster and more
stable II than the the cubic function um
they also use average embeddings of
phrases I'll show an example of that
later
and they also use second-order features
so they they took the second-order
parsing algorithm that was used in
previous parsers and they they use this
as well um so what their phrasing
betting's look like basically they the
motivation is that words surrounding or
between the head and the dependent give
you important clues about whether a
dependency arc is a good one or not
a very obvious example of this is your
verb a verb connects to a noun
very frequently if it's the closest verb
to that noun but if you have another
verb in between the verb and the noun
then probably your likelihood of
connecting to that now and it's going to
be much smaller so what they did here
was they basically took the average of
the embeddings of the prefix of the word
and also the infix which included the
head and the dependent in all the words
in between it and then a few things of
the suffix and then they input all of
these into their parsing model in the
results of this do they help I so for
the first-order parsing and the
second-order parsing basically they
increased by about one one labelled
attachment score and similarly for
unlabeled attachment score um the speed
was on par with previous fast previous
graph based dependency
so it's not a huge speed gain
unlike the unlike the Chenin manning
paper which was significantly faster and
also interestingly the second order in
neural parser was better than a third
order the results weren't completely
comparable with the ones that I showed
above but this showed that the the
neural features who are helping quite a
bit are there any questions about this
ok so then the next natural thing to do
in 2016 is we use a by Allah scheme now
because that's what you do in 2016 hmm
so this one basically it just took a
biased um as a feature extractor for the
words um it did away with all of the
feature
templates that were used before I mean
it just basically extracted features
using this bias TM and then you can
compare so what what this indicates here
is we extract the vectors from the BIOS
TM we put both of them into a
multi-layer perceptron and use it to
calculate a score and then based on that
we we calculate the score of our of our
whole tree this is also still using the
structured training algorithm so sorry I
forgot to mention this both this one and
this one are using kind of this
structured training algorithm which
means you have to decode you decode to
find the best scoring tree and then you
penalize that best scoring tree using
this large this large margin objective
so that part is the same is is the
previous balance
are there any so now we are on to the
were on to the kind of state-of-the-art
model here this this model got the best
accuracy on
Universal dependencies parsing tasks in
in Connell this is a the name of the
paper is by EFI and attention I would
rather call it a by FN classifier
because they don't really it doesn't
really seem like attention to me so much
it's more like they're using a
classifier but um basically the their
model can be summarized according to
these formulas so our here is your bio
STM vector for forward I RJ here is your
bio STM vector for word J where RI is
the dependent and RJ is the head and you
run this through you run both of these
through a multi-layer perceptron so this
allows you to learn a specific
representation for each word yes a head
or as a dependent so basically this
multi-layer perceptron can extract the
important information to decide whether
this word is good is a good head or a
good dependent and this is different
depending on its role in the connection
then what we have here is we have a
large matrix of all the possible heads
of each word so this is a matrix and we
have and then for each dependent H I we
multiply the dependent by a matrix then
we multiply this by this matrix and this
gives us a set of scores for the words
so basically these are scores of how
good a match these are as heads or
dependents the next thing down here this
is a bias basically and this is saying
given in this u2 is a parameter vector
you multiply this by
by all of the heads all of the vectors
of the heads and this gives you a
another vector this vector is not
dependent on the current word it's the
same for all of the words in the
sentence and basically what this is
saying is how likely is this word to be
ahead at all not for this particular
word but how likely is it to be ahead at
all so but combining these two together
you can say how good of a match is this
and how good how good is this the the
word is ahead in general and this gives
you a score for each arc basically and
you can use this to classify this paper
is a little bit difficult to parse like
that dependency parse but for me to for
me to understand but I my understanding
of the paper is that they then went to
to put this into a cross entropy loss
that basically tried to select the best
scoring so I don't think they're doing
the structured training thing here or at
least they didn't mention it so this is
a local model but then they have global
decoding using a minimum spanning tree
algorithm at the end just to make sure
that the the tree that you get is
consistent and this got the best results
with careful parameter tuning on the
universal dependencies parsing desk
I went and saw the talked about the at
the universal dependencies parsing task
and the majority of the talk was about
how they did parameter tunings
so I guess parameter tuning is very
important for this model but luckily
they tell you all of the parameters they
used etc so if you're interested in
implementing a model like this you can
take a look so we actually have an
example of this that next are there any
questions before we look at the example
yeah
one more time sure so um so basically
maybe I can write it on the board but we
have two parts to the equation we have
the top part in the bottom part the the
top part is basically we have H I H 1 H
2 H 3 H 4 and these are all these are
all hidden vectors of each dependent or
these are all hidden vectors for each
dependent so in dependency parsing each
word has exactly one had each word
that's not the root has exactly one head
so we can formulate this problem as a
problem of this word basically selecting
its head so what we want to do is we
want to calculate a score vector for
each word and then select the maximum
select the maximum score as the head of
that word so the top the top equation is
calculating this score
the top part is calculating the score
for each of these words where hopefully
the score of the head will be higher
than all the others the bottom part of
this equation is completely independent
of the original word it's the same for
all of the dependents in the it's the
same for all of the dependents in the
sentence um so you can think of this as
a bias factor basically the bias factor
will give a higher score to words that
tend to be heads so let's say let's say
you identify the main your biology um as
identify the main verb in the sentence
the main verb in the sentence tends to
have lots of children so it should have
a high score here so it'll be like plus
plus 3 or something like that like some
high score on the other hand determiners
are almost never heads right determiners
like uh and are almost always children
so they will almost never have a
dependent so based on that if you have
that this will have a very low score
like minus 7 so it won't get any
children so basically what this is doing
is it's just telling you how likely it
is for a word to be a head and then you
add these two together and that gives
you the final um that gives you the
final score for each for each word like
this is that more clearly
the weird saying by a fine yes that's
the the score calculation function so
you can think of it as an F I in an
affine transform so if you see H I arc
depth times the matrix u plus u squared
that would be an affine transform and
they're calling it a by affine transform
because you also have the okay so for
another thing is um probably the name of
this slide should be global
probabilistic training so previously
I've talked about margin-based global
training in local probabilistic training
um I'm sorry actually we had the code
example that I totally forgot about oh I
was answering that question so let's
talk let's do the code example now and I
think we're just going to give a very
brief overview of the code example
because this is a little bit more
involved than the previous ones but um I
think it should still be okay so net
first goes through their their framework
of our path
so here is how we reach the rate of the
data and we just skip this part and from
here we first construct our model and
set up their cleaner and here is the
embedding cells and they're hidden sighs
after bi-directional STM than the
defender bi-directional STM here and the
only difference is here so when we use
their bias TM to expect their feature
neuro feature vectors and use them as
the input of the our passer so people
from this part people and this is how we
construct their feature vectors and here
we constructor by event pattern so now
we see how could we compute their dirty
code loss so now we see this fail this
fair is the class of their bio fan
attention model which is just there the
model proposed in bystanders snap oh
pastor published at last eight years
appeared so basically it is so many
parameters so first we need to define
their their their linear their
their linear transformation for further
improved features and we need to
distinguish their their head
representation dirty depend dependent
representation and then we have there
so here the PICU is the parameters
folder tie off and transformation and
small u is folder linear transformation
so to calculate the score so basically
the score is the matrix is a tensor so
minsters with sir so basically we have
so when if we want to compute the loss
we need to first compute the scores and
then gets a loss so basically we have to
loss when it's for their arc and one is
for label so here if actually we can use
one integrated score integrating loss
but here the author's feet there the
loss into two parts when it's full for
arc and vines for label I don't know if
by the event the uses didn't but it
works and it appears very good result
and here is the decoding measure so for
decoding we need to see home
so for your coding you need to go
through this file and see the decoding
algorithm MST algorithm so this
algorithm takes their score matrix as
input and so first it's just greedily
search their search they were passed as
has for each for each node and then they
use their see area of wisdom so they
first find a circle in the original
graph and if there it's a circle then
they construct the circle into one node
and to their to the falling part
recursively to their MST as to the MST
algorithm and then expand their circle
back so basically this is their energy
efficient so think say I think that was
a good short overview I don't expect
everybody understood everything from
this but now you know where to look if
you want to get a grant create a graph
based parser um are there any questions
about this No okay I will I will move on
so as I said this should probably be
labeled global probabilistic training so
previously we had margin based global
training and local probabilistic
training we can also come up with a
local probabilistic model sometimes we
want probabilistic models because they
give us because they give us you know
probabilities that we can use in
downstream tasks as well calibrated
confidence measures and we want
something that basically looks like that
although this is
this is from my previous my previous
slides so there are algorithms for
calculating in in order to train a
global probabilistic model remember from
the CRF class the most important thing
is to be able to calculate this
partition function we can calculate the
score for the numerator easily by just
stepping over all of the edges in the
correct tree but calculating this
partition function is the hard part just
so you know in case you want to do
something like this you can use ice
nurse algorithm is a bottom-up CKY style
algorithm that allows you to do it for
projective dependency parsing and you
can also marginalize or you can also
calculate the partition function and for
non projective parsing there is matrix
tree theorem which allows you to compute
the marginals over directed graphs in
this was applied to neural models also
by Macs
so from all of these from all of these
lectures here I think you now know that
if you have a question you should ask
max about dependency parsing cool so
that's it for dependency parsing I'm
also going to talk about phrase
structure parsing as well so phrase
structure parsing you know we want to
calculate phrase structures that look
like this um here it's actually an
important insight here is that parsing
is actually very similar to tagging so
tagging is search in a graph for the
best path through the graph um
parsing is search in a hyper graph for
the best tree um
this also applies to dependency parsing
as well but it's especially widely used
in infraestructure parsing and I'll
explain what this means in in a moment
so um so what is a hyper graph a hyper
graph is basically
similar to a graph first we defined the
degree of an edge within a tree to be
equal to the number of children that's
something that's something else the
degree of a hyper graph is a maximum
degree of its edges so a graph is a
hyper graph of degree one you can see
that all of the possible edges in this
in this graph have one child basically
one one thing that the arrow is pointing
to while in the top in the top we have
two children for a particular edge so
what what would be a hyper graph of
degree two it's not a trick question
yes so binary tree and so one thing I
should note is that in algorithms for
NLP I think everybody covered the CKY
algorithm right um so the CKY algorithm
is a graph is a algorithm for searching
over hyper graphs of a specific degree
two of a specific shape there are fully
connected hyper graphs of not fully
connected but they consider all of the
all of the connections in your grammar
of degree 2 so the just to give an
example if we wanted to come up with a
hyper graph that encoded the ambiguity
in the sentence I saw a girl with a
telescope there's basically two
different common interpretations of this
one interpretation is I saw a girl who
had a telescope this is the blue tree or
the blue the tree with the blue edges
here and the I saw a girl by using a
telescope interpretation is the it's the
one with the red edge so basically by
choosing which one
these edges is correct we can
disambiguate the parts here so like
graphs we can add weights to the
hypergraph edges these are generally the
the negative log probability of finding
that particular edge in the tree it
could just be a score if we wanted it to
be so we could assign assign a score to
each of these edges and once we do this
basically if we search over this hyper
graph we can we can get something so the
CKY algorithm as I mentioned is finding
the highest scoring tree given a CFG
grammars so it creates a hyper graph
containing all of the candidates for a
binaries grammar and does does search
over them like this so if you remember
when max talked about the Viterbi
algorithm before basically the score of
the Viterbi what we did during the
Viterbi algorithm was we took the the
score of our particular edge and then we
added the score of the child of the
previous state and then we tried to find
the best score of these two possible
possibilities so here we do almost
exactly the same thing the only the only
difference is that instead of adding up
a single best score for our previous
state we add up the score for all of our
children so you can see here here I'm
only showing two different choices the
two choices that are kind of ambiguous
in the sentence so the way we would add
up their scores is by taking these two
these two equations and then when we
choose which one is the best we would
take in this state case we're taking the
minimum because a lowers a lower score
is better in we could also take the
maximum if we if we wanted to so
this is basically exactly the same as
the Viterbi algorithm but Viterbi is
over graphs while ck ye is over over I
progressed so that are there any
questions about this um so I guess let
me um let me just put this in the same
in the same space but basically we have
if we have a verb phrase that is going
from from word one to word three we have
a bunch of possibilities word one word
two or three we could be calculating
verb in that noun we so this is one
choice of an edge we could be
calculating verb tense so this would be
another edge and basically we just
expand in the CKY algorithm we're
expanding all of these edges all of the
possible edges and then we would do a
similar thing for so we just expand all
of these edges and and then take the
best square so the the reason why I
wanted to mention this in this framework
basically is the connection between the
Viterbi algorithm and the CKY algorithm
is the Viterbi algorithm is an algorithm
for searching over degree one
hypergraphs
while the CKY algorithm is a particular
algorithm for searching over decree
degree two hyper hyper graphs
so the CRF was a the linear CRF that we
talked about was an algorithm for
calculating the partition function of a
particular variety of degree one of
degree one graphs we can do a very
similar thing that we did for the for
the CRF algorithm to calculate the
partition function using a CFG grammar
so the partition function sorry is the
probability of the top span so this is
the exact same as CKY except instead of
taking the max like we do in secret in
the CKY algorithm we instead switch in a
log some expiration so this is the same
thing we did for the CRFs that max
talked about so if you go back and look
at the CRF example if you go back and
look at the CRF example we took the
Viterbi algorithm and we swapped in a
blog some X to calculate the partition
function for a tree we take the CKY
algorithm and we swapped in a log sum X
and once we have this we have the
partition function we have the
denominator of our loss function and
then we just calculate the numerator
given our goal tree and we can we can
optimize according to that um sorry I
realized now that I probably should have
had a an extra slide illustrating this
but was this did people kind of
understand this he kind of yes kind of
know if you have questions I'll be happy
to take them either now or later um
so there are ways we can take this into
account and train train parsers that
basically use a CRF over trees so this
neural CRF parsing paper basically what
it does is it has a feed-forward network
that predicts the probability of a
particular production role being used at
a particular span
and then it does discrete structured
inference using the CKY or the inside
Algar inside/outside algorithm so they
have a very nice paper in a very nice
diagram in their paper that demonstrates
this where basically they extract
features for each span use this to
calculate the likelihood or the score of
a particular rule occurring here then
they use their normal CKY algorithm and
and and inside-outside algorithm to
basically calculate a CRF based
objective so this is a very elegant
algorithm it's a well-written paper and
they also have a nice examination of
sparse features versus dense features
versus sparse features versus neural
features etc so this is one example of
kind of structured phrase structure
parsing with with dynamic programming a
more recent paper that came out which is
we simply tried to decide whether a span
is a constituent in the tree or not so
this becomes a binary classification
problem or not binary it's a it's a
multi-class classification problem where
you have the label of each span and then
you have whether it was a constituent or
not so the idea is our inference or
sorry our training is completely
independent we don't even worry about
any CRF style training but we just tried
to perform this span classification as
accurately as possible and then you know
we can use biology on feature extractors
we can use anything we have in our
disposal and a kind of interesting thing
is now this allows you to do a top-down
greedy decoding algorithm as well as
opposed to the normal CKY algorithm that
we use it also allows for various loss
functions local versus structured
various inference algorithms
kyt versus top-down um any any questions
about that okay so I'll move on through
the last one so I spent the entire time
talking about very nice ways to
incorporate discrete sorry
clever dynamic programming the inference
algorithms so now I'm going to move in
the exact opposite direction which says
we're going to give up on doing any
clever inference or search whatsoever
and we're just going to do parser e
ranking so we have this really nice
model that you thought up it's very well
linguistically motivated or it's great
for your machine it incorporates the the
best slight variational generative
adversarial networked machine learning
algorithm with with whatever you know
fancy tricks you want to throw at it but
suddenly it becomes very hard to decode
it becomes very hard to actually perform
search for this so what you can do is
rewriting so you basically generate with
an easy to decode model that's pretty
good
so you take state-of-the-art
off-the-shelf parser and generate an and
best lists or samples from the and best
list and then you rescore it with your
proposal model and this is very flexible
it allows you to try new ideas without
thinking about the decoding there's a
lot of examples of models that do this
and get very good accuracy so I think
the first one this was actually kind of
maybe one of the predecessors to kind of
I don't know this structured inference
idea but it's basically an
inside-outside recursive neural network
so the idea is you you calculate in a
tree structure two fashion
the all the sub-tree and then you
calculate also from top down you
calculate the context than you use both
of these and in making your decision and
this this was a pretty good paper I
realized actually I missed the original
paper on recursive neural networks which
also did something like this there's
another paper on parsing as language
modeling so this paper basically they
created linearized trees and just
trained a big language model over these
linearized trees and the nice thing
about this was they could use a large
amount of kind of automatically parsed
data to do this effectively and I think
for some time this had the best results
on the penn treebank or something like
this and then there's also recurrent
neural network grammars which I talked
about a little bit before um this is a
kind of generative tree based model that
also requires rear inking because it's
very hard to generate from it um so
these this shows that you can kind of do
very interesting things with the this
tree ranking framework but there was an
interesting short paper at ACL this year
which is a word of caution about rear
inking so your rear inking model got
stayed with art results this is a great
thing you're very happy um if it's a
linguistically motivated model you might
think oh great this you know validated
my linguistic theory about this
linguistic information being very
important because now it's giving us
much better results than you know the
the variational generative adversarial
Alice TM that other people are using um
but one thing you need to be very
careful about is it might just be a
effective model combination so model
combination I mentioned on before
ensemble
ensemble is something that always raises
your accuracy it always makes your
models work better in neural land so um
basically what happens is the model
generating the parses can prune down the
search space to a bunch of reasonable
a bunch of reasonable choices and then
the rear ankle model chooses the best
parts only in that space it chooses the
best parts only out of the one set the
other model taht were a good idea so
basically you get ones where both of the
models agree and this is the same as on
sampling and at end which we already
know improves our methods if they have
some they have some interesting results
here where this is the the
discriminative model and they either
generated candidates from the
discriminative model the generative
model or the union of the discriminative
model and generative model and then they
had a scoring based on the
discriminative model the generative
model or the discriminative plus
generative model averaged together and
the original paper this is comparing to
the RNN the recurrent neural network
grammars paper which showed that
basically generative models work well
and in the recurrent neural networks
grammars paper the original scores were
this one which was the baseline score
and this one which was the
discriminative parses Rhee ranked with
the generative courses so this looks
great right you got a big gain of one
point two points by introducing your
nice kind of maybe linguistically
motivated generative model but then you
look they they came up with an algorithm
to generate more effectively from this
generative model which got better scores
for the generative model but you can see
that actually the generative model got
worse
accuracy overall when you actually used
the parses in the the space found by
this so you can see that the generative
model improving here was just in the
fact of its search space being pruned
down by the discriminative model and you
actually need to be careful yeah and
then you look when you combine all of
the models together you get the best
support which is what we already know we
already know ensemble in multiple models
together it works so
um this is just one thing that you need
to be careful about if you're doing rear
inking which is that your original model
might be pruning down the the space so
just be aware of this um so that's all
this is all for syntactic parsing next
time I'll be talking about semantic
parsing are there any questions about
the material today
okay um if so I will finish up here so